While frameworks
are used to create
plans to address security risks,
threats, and vulnerabilities,
controls are used to
reduce specific risks.
If proper controls
are not in place,
an organization could face
significant financial impacts
and damage to their reputation
because of exposure to risks
including trespassing, creating
fake employee accounts,
or providing free benefits.
Let's review the
definition of controls.
Security controls are safeguards
designed to reduce
specific security risks.
In this video, we'll
discuss three common types
of controls: encryption,
authentication,
and authorization.
Encryption is the process
of converting data
from a readable format
to an encoded format.
Typically, encryption
involves converting
data from plaintext
to ciphertext.
Ciphertext is the
raw, encoded message
that's unreadable to
humans and computers.
Ciphertext data cannot
be read until it's
been decrypted into its
original plaintext form.
Encryption is used to ensure
confidentiality of
sensitive data,
such as customers'
account information
or social security numbers.
Another control that
can be used to protect
sensitive data is
authentication.
Authentication is the process of
verifying who someone
or something is.
A real-world example
of authentication is
logging into a website with
your username and password.
This basic form of
authentication proves that you
know the username and password
and should be allowed
to access the website.
More advanced methods
of authentication,
such as multi-factor
authentication, or MFA,
challenge the user to
demonstrate that they
are who they claim to be
by requiring both a password
and an additional form
of authentication,
like a security
code or biometrics,
such as a fingerprint,
voice, or face scan.
Biometrics are unique
physical characteristics
that can be used to verify
a person's identity.
Examples of biometrics
are a fingerprint,
an eye scan, or a palm scan.
One example of a social
engineering attack
that can exploit
biometrics is vishing.
Vishing is the exploitation of
electronic voice
communication to
obtain sensitive information or
to impersonate a known source.
For example, vishing could
be used to impersonate
a person's voice to steal
their identity and
then commit a crime.
Another very important security
control is authorization.
Authorization refers
to the concept of
granting access to specific
resources within a system.
Essentially, authorization
is used to verify
that a person has permission
to access a resource.
As an example, if
you're working as
an entry-level security analyst
for the federal government,
you could have
permission to access
data through the deep web or
other internal data that is only
accessible if you're
a federal employee.
The security controls
we discussed
today are only one element of
a core security model
known as the CIA triad.
Coming up, we'll talk more
about this model and how
security teams use it to
protect their organizations.